[MUSIC]
Welcome back.
In this video,
we'll address how companies use data and
analytics to improve decision making
by sharing a few case studies with you.
Organizations are constantly trying to
improve and transform, whether to address
periodic strategic challenges or
everyday operational improvements.
There is a process to
business decision making.
We know executives pay attention to
what data and analytic tells them,
that's the science part of the equation.
But we also know they rely
heavily on the art of intuition.
Where their own experience, market
insight, and what they hear from advisers.
Let me walk you through a fine example.
For those of you who don't immediately
recognize the face, this is Dick Rowe,
a music industry executive.
Dick made a decision in 1962
that guitars were fed, and
he wasn't going to
invest in guitar groups.
Dick made a decision to
not sign the Beatles.
Bad decision.
But luckily for Dick,
he learned from that decision and
was redeemed when he later
signed the Rolling Stones.
More than 50 years later,
many business leaders continue to
rely heavily on intuition to
make really important decisions.
Our PWC big decision survey
has revealed that highly data-driven
organizations are three times more likely
to report significant
improvement in decision making.
But only one in three executives say
their organization is highly data-driven.
In conversations with business leaders,
we often hear that executives have
readily available access to vast
amounts of data at any point in time.
But we also hear that a major factor
in their decision making comes from
their own intuition or gut feeling.
The question is, how to better combine
the art and science of decision making?
At PWC, we believe a more effective use of
data combined with the ability to extracts
insights, offer opportunities for
organizations to drive greater value.
Embedding analytics into the decision
making culture of an organization can help
organizations grow and innovate, operate
more efficiently, and better manage risk.
Let me share a few
examples from our clients.
An airline wanted to reduce flight delays,
or
cancellations caused by
maintenance related issues.
By combining the fleets message center
data with maintenance log information.
PWC helped develop an analytical model
to predict up to 30% of maintenance
delays before they occurred.
The cost savings to the organization
was in the millions of dollars for
the pilot stage of the effort.
Thereby helping the airlines stay ahead of
it's competition on timely performance.
Another client of global financial
services organization needed to strengthen
its internal anti-money laundering and
counter terrorist financing controls.
Besides the obvious benefits from this
program, they also wanted to improve
regulatory relations and
gain deeper insight into their business.
PWC develop a model to connect
the series of data sets and
performed trend analyses that uncovered
a network of relationships among accounts.
Enabling the organization to improve
its overseas transaction monitoring.
We also developed real time dashboards and
visualizations to more efficiently monitor
for suspicious activity and
identify operational risks.
Lastly, we worked with an oil
field services organization
to improve utilization of
its field office staff.
With our client,
we combine the organization's global field
activity data with utilization, cost,
employee demographic and other information
to develop an analytical model,
to improve operating cost, as well as
improve speed of response to its clients.
So, lets recap what we covered in this
video on how businesses solve problems and
where data and analytics fits in.
Organizations are constantly trying to
improve, whether they are addressing new
challenges and opportunities, or
trying to make operational improvements.
When we overlay data and analytics on
this process, the result is better and
faster decision making.
In the next video, we'll take
an in depth look at the data and
analytics process used to
help make big decisions.
[MUSIC]